Refactor the definition of monads (#1019)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/category-theory/pointed-endofunctors-precategories.lagda.md

# Pointed endofunctors

```agda
module category-theory.pointed-endofunctors-precategories where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import category-theory.functors-precategories
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-precategories
open import category-theory.precategories

open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.universe-levels
```

</details>

## Idea

> An [endofunctor](category-theory.functors-precategories.md) `F : C → C` on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An endo[functor](category-theory.functors-precategories.md) `F : C → C` on a
```

[precategory](category-theory.precategories.md) `C` is said to be
{{#concept "pointed" Disambiguation="endofunctor on a category" Agda=pointed-endofunctor-Precategory}}
if it comes equipped with a
[natural transformation](category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-precategories.md)
`id ⇒ F` from the identity [functor](category-theory.functors-precategories.md)
to `F`.

More explicitly, a
{{#concept "pointing" Disambiguation="endofunctor on a precategory" Agda=pointing-endofunctor-Precategory}}
of an endofunctor `F : C → C` consists of a family of morphisms `η X : X → F X`
such that for each morphism `f : X → Y` in `C` the diagram

```text
       η X
    X -----> F X
    |         |
  f |         | F f
    ∨         ∨
    Y -----> F Y
       η Y
```

> commutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[commutes](category-theory.commuting-squares-of-morphisms-in-precategories.md)
```
